Update Docs: Netlify Deploy Should Be Through CLI, Not Website (#2347)
wasp-lang/wasp: web/docs/advanced/deployment/manually.md

That is it! Your client should be live at `https://<app-name>.netlify.app` ✨

:::caution Redirecting URLs toward `index.html`
If you follow the instructions above, Netlify will use `netlify.toml` file that Wasp generates by default in `.wasp/build/web-app/`. This will correctly configure Netlify to redirect URLs toward `index.html`, which is important since Wasp is SPA.

If you instead use another method of deployment to Netlify, e.g. do it via CI, make sure that Netlify picks up that `netlify.toml` file, or configure URL redirecting yourself manually on Netlify.

It is recommended to deploy through the Netlify CLI in Github Actions. The first deploy can be through the website or manually to get a `NETLIFY_SITE_ID`, the following deploys can then be automatic.
:::

:::note
Make sure you set this URL as the `WASP_WEB_CLIENT_URL` environment variable in your server hosting environment (e.g., Fly.io or Heroku).
:::

> ### Deploying through Github Actions

Reviewer: @infomiho I just merged this PR by a contributor. They made it clear that if deploying on Netlify, we need redirectin to be correctly set (either manually or using our netlify.toml).

They also added this section though, which shows how to exactly do it via Github Action. I approved it and merged, but I do wonder if this is too much for this part of the docs, are we going too far / doing too much here. Since you are now redesigning deployment docs I wanted to hear what you think. Maybe we will have a specific Github Actions section and this will be better explained there directly, instead of here under Netlify? Should we matbe (re)move this part?

Author: @Martinsos @infomiho Just wanted to hear your opinion on something similar: I am interested in writing documentation to deploy OpenSaaS on AWS (either EC2 or Lightsail), probably also including GitHub Actions to handle CI/CD.

I imagine I will briefly describe the peculiarities related to AWS, but maybe the GitHub Actions code is a bit too much? If that is the case I can put the detailed code that works with a particular version of OpenSaaS into a separate blog post, and only cover the general steps in the docs.

Reviewer: @Bojun-Feng btw, @infomiho is on the conference from tomorrow so it might take him a bit longer to respond to this, but he should get to it the next week latest.

As for your question: Ok nice, that would be cool, the docs for AWS! Btw why OpenSaas, why not Wasp? I don't think there is anything OpenSaas specific? Or is there?

I think you are right, Github Action might be too much, especially if it has a lot of stuff that is "general" and not specific to AWS. But as you said, that could be a blog post for example, you are right! Btw we also ahve this https://github.com/wasp-lang/learning-materials -> sometimes we put stuff like this there. Hard to say at the moment if blog post or this is better, @infomiho might have some good ideas.

That is it! Your client should be live at `https://<app-name>.netlify.app` ✨

> :::caution
> Please do not set up the continuous deploy through the Netlify website. When deployed in this way, Netlify doesn't redirect URLs toward `index.html` but instead returns 404, which can break the user authentication functionality. Wasp by default comes with a `netlify.toml` file in `.wasp/build/web-app` that configures Netfliy correctly, but the configuration may break when deployed through the Netlify website.

Reviewer: I would suggest the following change:

```suggestion
:::caution Redirecting URLs toward `index.html`
If you follow the instructions above, Netlify will use `netlify.toml` file that Wasp generates by default in `.wasp/build/web-app/`. This will correctly configure Netlify to redirect URLs toward `index.html`, which is important since Wasp is SPA.

If you instead use another method of deployment to Netlify, e.g. do it via CI, make sure that Netlify picks up that `netlify.toml` file, or configure URL redirecting yourself manually on Netlify.
```

  - Go to your [Netlify User Settings Page](https://app.netlify.com/user/settings).
  - Scroll down to **Personal Access Tokens**.
  - Click on **New Access Token** to create a new token.
  
- **`NETLIFY_SITE_ID`**: This is the unique identifier for your Netlify site. You can obtain this from the **Site Settings** of your site in the Netlify dashboard:
  - Go to your **Netlify dashboard**.
  - Click on the specific site you want to deploy.
  - Go to **Site Settings** → **General** → **Site Information** → **Site ID**.

- **`WASP_SERVER_URL`**: This is the link that points to your backend and is generally only available after **deploying the backend**. This variable can be skipped when the backend is not functional or not deployed, but be aware that backend-dependent functionalities may be broken.

After obtaining the environment variables, you need to store these values securely in GitHub Secrets. To add these:

1. Go to your **GitHub repository**.
2. Navigate to **Settings** → **Secrets and variables** → **Actions** → **New repository secret**.
3. Add the following secrets:
   - `NETLIFY_AUTH_TOKEN`
   - `NETLIFY_SITE_ID`
   - `WASP_SERVER_URL`
</details>
:::

> 

Reviewer: All right, instructions for deploying to Netlify via CLI!

So tricky part with docs is that on one hand, it is good for users to put a lot of stuff in them, because it usually helps, but on the other hand, that means more stuff to maintain and that will potentially become incorrect or stale with time. So we need to choose carefully how much to put.

I would say this is on the border of it, since it is quite Github Action and Netlify specific. i wonder if it might be better having this as a separate repo that has example app with tha tgithub action, so it is also tested immediately that way -> but ok that would require some setup on our side now.

Ok, I would say let's keep it and see, why not. But I would make it a separate section, so `### Automatic deployment via Github Actions`, and this would go under it.
Also, I would shorten the instructions on how to obtian the Netlify secrets, because those can easily become incorrect if Netfliy changes their UI. I would instead just say that they can obtain them from Netlify and that is it, they will figure it out.
